# Becoming a Metal Dev?
21 June 2023

Welcome to what is essentially the first entry in a newsletter (but not really). There's no schedule here and like a lot of hobbyist developers my online presence will fall off the face of the earth randomly for months at a time. GitHub definitely isn't the best platform for this but everything else I do can be found here in some form so here we are. 

## Project Updates
### Optimal
Optimal is transitioning to be fully open-source with all website assets hosted here on GitHub. The site is also in a restricted state as a result of deciding to stop supporting Reddit on Optimal in protest of their recent API pricing changes that have forced several prominent third party clients to shut down. All of this will merge into the upcoming v11 release of Optimal. 
### New Project: Stratamax
I've started a new project called Stratamax with the goal of porting Bejeweled 3 to modern macOS machines. Bejeweled 3 is a game I was very fond of back when I always had access to a Windows machine, but with Apple's decision to drop 32bit application support prior to macOS Mojave, Bejeweled 3 and countless other games have been lost to time and can no longer be played (at least natively). Stratamax will utilize the new tools released for developers at WWDC23 to achieve a native port. Namely, Apple's Game Porting Toolkit, Metal Shader Converter, Xcode 15 beta, and macOS 14 Sonoma beta will all form the backbone of development. You can read more at [gabefletch/stratamax](https://github.com/gabefletch/stratamax)
### On the Music
The AI-synth orchestral album I announced earlier this year is still brewing. For those wondering, synths have been sourced from AIVA and several DAWs are being used for production, primarily StudioOne. 

Get more short-form updates by following me [on Instagram](https://instagram.com/gabefletch).

[dub.sh/gabe](https://dub.sh/gabe) 
